--- _The Art of Computer Programming_ is more than a how-to manual. _Quanta Magazine_ spoke with Knuth in February at his home on the Stanford campus. The interview has been condensed and edited for clarity. Early on, I was advised that the real world would be too hard for me. We had jokes. ### And that led to your magnum opus? Do you think of it as another story? _The Art of Computer Programming_ is a manifesto. Most textbooks at the time didn’t explore the human side of discoveries. I viewed myself not as a pioneer, but as a journalist. That was it. I decided that the next time I was asked this question, I would say, “Analysis of algorithms.” My definition was: If I’m interested in it, it’s the analysis of algorithms. It wasn’t a very good definition. The letter “S” comes to a point where the curvature changes from positive to negative. The math was there to capture the design in a quantitative way. I could say the letter “A” has got this point, that thickness, angles here, tapering there, a hump in the bottom and a certain serif length. I never intended to replace designers. I only wanted to capture for future generations exactly what we were doing then. With TeX, a design is reproducible. ### Did you anticipate TeX’s global acceptance or its ability to endure? TeX was only supposed to be for my secretary and myself. Nearly every piece of mathematics published in the 1970s looked atrocious. I finished debugging a trial version of TeX in April 1978. In May, I had 10 users. In June, I had 100 users. Each new group would say, “You’ve gotta have this feature.” Five years later, I released what is essentially the TeX we have now. That was designed for Americans. ### It sounds like discovery has always been part of your process. I write an average of five new programs every week. I can say something to you and you’ll nod your head, but I’m not sure that I explained it well. But the computer doesn’t nod its head. It repeats back exactly what I tell it.
